Objectives
What you will practice in this Part:
- Vectors or multi dimensional vectors
- Using help functions
- Modifying a current (existing) project by going back and forth
- Debugging and testing
- Object Oriented Programming
Phase 2 is based on Phase 1, there are no extra files or skeletons required.
Part 1: Adding a new option to the Main Menu (10 points)
Before starting with Phase 2, please double check your Phase 1 and make sure it works,
otherwise, try to resolve the issues for the Phase 1 part before moving to Phase 2.
In Phase 2, you will make connections to be friends with each other. This needs modification of
Network classes. To have the option of testing your code as you proceed, please first start with
adding a new option to the main menu in Network class. It is desirable to write your code,
compile and test it step by step.
Follow these steps:
- In network.cpp, add another option (e.g, option 6), which is called "Connect"
. It makes two
connections to be friends with each other, just like being friends in Facebook and Linkedin.
"Connect" is double sided in this Network.
- When user selects this option, just like other options, first clear the screen and just print "Make
friends"
. You should then get the information of one of the person, just like what you did in
Search method. Then search for this person. Because the first and last names are unique in
your network, if this person is not found, print "Person not found" and go back to the Main Menu.
If the first person exists, ask user for the information of the 2nd person to connect, and again, if
it does not exist, print "Person not found" and go back to main menu.
- If both person exist, print their information in order. Your console should look like the following
(the bold lines are the prompt of the application and the normal font is what the user enters):
Make friends:
Person 1
First Name: Anne William
Last Name: Berton
Person 2
First Name: John Roy
Last Name: Arora
Berton, Ann William
May 2, 1999
Phone (Cell): 876-541-2345
Email (USC): abert@usc.edu
Arora, John Roy
September 29, 1998
Phone (Cell): 648-729-7001
Email (USC): aroraj@usc.edu
Part 2: Adding vector of myfriends to Person class (10
points)
A Person object needs to know whom he/she is friends with. Please store the information of
friends of a Person using a vector. That vector has the following type: Person *
Add this vector as an attribute to Person class and call it "myfriends"
.
Implement the method void Person::makeFriend(Person* newFriend), where it gets the Person*
as input, and adds it to the vector myfriends of this object.
Now go back to Main Menu, for option "Connect"
, except printing the information of two
Persons (that we did in Part 1), make them friends with each other and update the vector of
friends in Person class.
You are almost done! Now you may make Person objects to be friends with each other. There
are still some details you need to add.
Part 3: Making a unique ID for each Person object (5
points)
Now the Person objects in the Network class can use their corresponding "myfriends" vector for
their friends. This information should be stored even if the application is closed. In Part1, you
used the SaveDB and LoadDB methods to store and restore the information of Person objects.
In this Part, you will enhance those methods to be able to handle the information related to the
friends of each Person object.
Let us define a unique ID for each Person object. An ID is the concatenation of the first name
and the last name of the corresponding Person object; however, with all lower case letters and
also all spaces removed. Similarly to what you had seen in Part1, the combination of first name
and last name is unique, i.e., no two Person objects with the same first name and last name
exist in the Network class. Let's check an example:
First Name: Enania
Last Name: Mordak Young
The code will be: "enaniamordakyoung"
Because this code may be used numerously in your code, we would like you to write a helper
function to ease the implementation process. You will continue to implement your helper
functions inside the misc.h and misc.c files. They currently have only one function, which prints
the header for our application (TROJANBOOK). Please implement and add the following helper
function:
string codeName(stirng str1, string str2); // concat str1 and str2, remove spaces, make all
letters lower case.
Please feel free to implement any other helper functions in misc. The functions are general and
are not specific to any class. Feel free to include new libraries, such as the algorithm library.
Part 4: Print Person (10 Points)
Please modify your Person::print
_person method to print the information of the friends for each
Person. For each Person, the code of its friends should be printed. Let's take a look at an
example:
Ben, Georgia Amber
July 17, 1996
Phone (office): 800-488-3111
Email (official): gaben@oop.edu
nayanagupta (Nayana Gupta)
amychang (Amy Chang)
adamchandler (Adam Chandler)
The code of all the friends are listed at the end (e.g. the last three lines shown above).
As seen in the above example, in addition to the code of a person's friend, also the
(FIRSTNAME LASTNAME) of the person's friend is printed.
Part 5: Sorting Friends (10 Points)
Add a function to class Person, Person:: print
_
friends that (pretty) prints a person's friends in a
sorted order.
The sorting is done based on the code of the names, in alphabetical order.
To simplify the sorting:
- Sorting should be done based on alphabetical order of the first letter of the code of names,
associated with a persons friends.
- Two individuals with the same first letter (in code), should be resolved as below:
- Check the second letter for both codes. It has to exist for both - we assume first
name and last name for each person is non-null.
- Sort the codes based on alphabetical order of this second letter. If the second letter
also matches, sort them anyhow you like. To keep this simple, we do not go to the next letter.
The final printing should be done based on the sorted codes but printing the First Name, Last
Name and not the codes themselves.
Example:
Person:
Tommy Trojan (code = tommytrojan)
Tommy Trojan's friends are,
Karan Kapoor (code = karankapoor)
Katy Bruin (code = katybruin)
Amy Chen (code = amychen)
Kurt Cobain (code = kurtcobain)
sorted codes = (amychen, katybruin, karankapoor, kurtcobain)
OR
sorted codes = (amychen, karankapoor, katybruin, kurtcobain)
Printed Output
Tommy, Trojan
--------------------------------
Amy, Chen
Katy, Bruin
Karan, Kapoor
Kurt, Cobain
OR
Tommy, Trojan
--------------------------------
Amy, Chen
Karan, Kapoor
Katy, Bruin
Kurt, Cobain
NOTE: You can use any sorting algorithm
Part 6. Adding a new search method to the Main Menu (5
points)
In this part, you will add a new search option to the Main Menu. This new wise search function
allows users to find a person by any available information stored in the network, not just by last
name. For example, users may search by phone number, email address, or birth date. This new
feature needs modification of the Network class. To have the option of testing your code as you
proceed, please first start with adding a new option to the main menu in Network class. It is
desirable to write your code, compile and test it step by step.
Follow these steps:
●
In network.cpp, add another option (e.g., option 7), which is called “Wise Search”
. This
option searches a person by any information stored in the database, such as phone
number, email address, or birth date.
●
When the user selects this option, just like other options, first clear the screen and print
“Wise Search”
. Then prompt the user to enter the information they want to search by.
●
Search through all people in the network and compare the input with the stored
information of each person. If a matching person is found, print that person’s information.
If no matching person exists, print “Person not found” and go back to the Main Menu.
●
You may design the matching rule so that the search can work with different fields in a
flexible way. For example, if the input matches a person’s phone number, email address,
or birth date, the person should be returned.
●
Your console should look like the following (the bold lines are the prompt of the
application and the normal font is what the user enters):
Wise Search:
Search By:
310-192-2847
Louis-Dreyfus, Julia Scarlett Elizabeth
January 13, 1961
Phone (Home): 310-192-2847
Email (Work): veep@wh.gov